Rebecca: I knew that two of my biggest fears
were of going deaf and of going blind.
Our instinct is to avoid that,
to run away from that,
whether it's just to distract ourselves
with any number of different things.
And at some point in sort of
that inner wrestling with myself,
I realized that if those
are my two biggest fears,
then that actually is exactly
what I need to face head on.
[music plays]
Korrine. So when I first started
losing my vision, that was probably
during the beginning of high school.
Getting adjusted to a whole new school,
getting adjusted to making new friends,
new classes, new environment,
that's stressful as it is.
And then starting to lose your vision,
which is a sense that a lot of people,
I think, take for granted.
It was a really tough adjustment
to try and, one process
and try to understand
and it's also a part of trying
to go through a grief cycle as well,
because growing up sighted
and then gradually losing this
piece of you that you've had
your whole life up until that point.
Also taking into consideration
the hearing loss, it gets so fatiguing.
You had to relearn how to do a lot
and learn how to navigate
and learn how to cope with the feelings
of losing your vision and
being able to handle it
in a safe and respectful way.
Rebcca: To be going
progressively deaf and blind
the initial feeling is that
I am being taken from my world,
that I'm not the same,
that everybody is able to do
all of these things that I am
progressively no longer able to do.
And what I always felt was just
a sense of not really belonging.
Like, I felt like there was something
fundamentally wrong with me because
developmentally I couldn't really wrap
my head around what was happening to me.
This was before my diagnosis,
and then when I was officially
diagnosed with Usher syndrome.
And what I realized along the way is that
it's not so much the physical implications
of going deaf and blind.
It's the emotional, it's
the social implications of losing
two of your most vital senses.
[music plays]
Korrine: When I was going through that period,
I ended up losing a lot of my friends
because everyone
kind of saw me as different.
I think it was kind of
intimidating for them.
I think it was scary for them.
Of course, they didn't know what
to expect and neither did I.
But it hurt.
It was something that kind of
was like a turning point in my life
I ended up having to get
taken out of public school
because they weren't providing me
with the accommodations that I needed
and I ended up getting
placed with a tutor one-on-one
where I was able to have more customized
curriculum to have that person be able
to read to me, to be able to have a CCTV
and other assistive technology.
Trying to take in all of that information
and feedback and absorb it and process it
and be able to understand
it clearly has been really difficult.
So just kind of
dealing with a dual sensory
loss is not an easy thing.
Rebecca: Your needs are evolving and changing
and so then having to ask someone
for what you need
when you're not even comfortable
with having those needs
or having new needs,
it can be really difficult.
But I think this underlying very,
very common theme
for people with disabilities
is this fear of being a burden.
And so I think it's that underlying
theme of being a burden
that really is pervasive
through so many of the lives of people
I work with with disabilities.
And the other thing is suppressed anger.
And I think there's a lot of anger
that becomes self-imposed
because of the way that they were treated
or the way that they were raised
to believe they should be,
that they're not.
Korrine: Having that thought process of,
“am I good enough to have a partner?”
you know, “will I have friends?
will I be successful and have a job?
Can I graduate college?”
Just a lot of that
was really hard to process.
You have to feel the emotions
to move past it.
You can't just kind of latch on
or just push it away.
You go through acceptance,
you go through denial.
You just need to learn how to cope.
And learn how to move
through those phases.
And it's not easy,
I'll be honest with that.
It was something that I really struggled
with, especially being a young adult
going through enough
as it is growing up and trying
to figure out your place in the world.
[music plays]
Korrine: A person who has a disability,
you're always going to assume that
this isn't someone I could ask for help.
This is certainly not somebody
I could lean on for support.
How can I lean on this person?
Look at all that they're dealing with.
And that is ableism.
That is ableism at its finest.
Assuming that someone,
because they have a disability,
that they are suffering,
that they are incapable,
that they can't be burdened because
look at the burden they already carry.
So all of those ways
in which ableism plays out
is certainly a major part of
the world that we live in.
Internalized ableism is when
you go out in the world...
It's all of those years that I spend of
feeling like it was not acceptable
for me to be anything
but sighted and hearing.
And that to be anything but sighted
and hearing meant that I was incapable.
Internalized ableism is that need to conform
to being as hearing and sighted,
as able-bodied as possible
because that's the only
socially acceptable way to be.
And so all of these insidious
ways that it manifests itself,
in whether it's trying to make
myself likable to somebody
who doesn't have a disability
so that they can feel like non-threatened
or not intimidated by me.
And so how do we start to reframe
the way that we view ourselves
and then reframe how other people see
people with disabilities?
But that internalized ableism,
I think is something that
we all have to develop a relationship with
and an understanding of
in order to be able
to come to terms with ourselves
as people with disabilities.
[music ends]